# UltrasonicBoneDensitometer
Osteoporosis means "porous bone." If a healthy bone is looked under a microscope, it will look like a honeycomb. In case of osteoporosis, the holes and spaces in the honey comb are much larger . This means bone has lost is density. As bones become less dense they tend to break easily, the bones of the spine are at great risk. The objectives of this project is to develop an ultrasound device to estimate bone mineral density (BMD). The device is  entirely self-contained, portable, and handheld, and permits real- time evaluation of the BMD by computing a parameter known as  net time delay (NTD). The NTD is defined as the difference between the transit time through the heel of an ultrasound signal and the transit time through a hypothetical object of equal thickness (to the heel) but containing soft tissue only. This parameter is sensitive primarily to the total amount (i.e., the average total thickness) of bone contained in the propagation path, and thus is  equivalent to the bone mineral content estimated by dual-energy x- ray absorptiometry (DXA) scanners, and to the (areal) BMD when  normalized by transducer area. Computer simulations of ultrasound propagation were used to study the relationship between NTD and BMD. The NTD and BMD were found to be very highly correlated (r = 0.99), demonstrating the high sensitivity of NTD to bone mass. The research described here, in conjunction with the fact that the devices are designed to be manufactured at very low cost, should enable the significant expansion of diagnosis and monitoring of osteoporosis.
